In this video, we want to take a look at
loading up data using what I call a
Bootstrap process. Effectively, what we
want to do is bring data into the
project. This is going to be like
some startup data. We'll set up some
things that we can work with. This is a
concept I've kind of steal from the
Grails team where we load up data on
startup and it's really nice when you're
developing a web application to have an
known set of data brought into your
environment. In here, what we're going to be
doing is like we're going to have three
different implementations. We'll have
a Map implementation, Spring Data JPA
implementation, as well as a traditional
just straight-up JPA implementation.
The first one is just going to be Map. It
would be a hash map in memory. The second
one we can use either a in-memory database
or a persistent database. We have
different tools for both of the latter
set but the process is going to be the same.
I'm going to start and I'm going to show
you how to configure this. I'm going to
go ahead and assign this task to myself so
we are working on test #14 and
that is to Load Bootstrap Data on
Startup. I'm going to toggle over to
IntelliJ now. Remember, we have our two
modules. We have the pet-clinic-data and
pet-clinic-web. Now, we can discuss about
where we want to store that.
Traditionally for me, I do like to
break out the data project but I look at
that as a tool as to how we are going to
save that data. I think that the
persistence and this is my opinion that
the persistence of said data should be
more at the project level, the
implementation level. Now what I do
here is I'm going to expand out under
the web. Remember we have our guru
springframework sfgpetclinic. That's
like our base package. I'm going to
come in here and I'm going to create a
New Package.
I'm going to call that bootstrap.
This is a pretty common
convention. Somebody else developing this
also people are fairly custom defining
startup data or any startup processes in
a package called bootstrap.
I am just going to call this a... I can call
something like a DataLoader,
or you could say DataInitializer. I mean
there's a dozen different names for that
but this makes sense for us. What we
want to do is implement.
This is a Spring Boot Class, CommandLineRunner. Now in the course, I'm going to
show you a couple different ways that we
can initialise data. This is one of them.
This is a Spring Boot specific way, so
I'm utilising this and I just do command
N and I'm going to implement the
methods.
Now it's important. I have this run
method. I'll take in arguments from the
environment. We're not going to be
utilising those
but what's important here is what we
want to do is make this a Component.
By Component, by making this a
Component, this becomes a Spring Bean and
it gets registered into the Spring
Context. What happens underneath the
covers of Spring is this is going to
execute. Spring saves that, "Oh, this
implements CommandLineRunner." When my
Spring Context is completely up and
ready, it's going to call this run method
and run everything inside of it.
Now what I'm going to do right now is I'm
going to implement this without a lot of
Spring configuration so I'm going to
come up here and implement a Constructor
and say I have, what I want to get a
handle on are my services.
I have my basic services and what I'm
going to do is I'm going to load up some
Owners and Vets. Now remember, Pets
are owned by Owners but we haven't
established that relationship, so I'm not
going to worry about that too much. What I
can do is say I'll do the actual
interface. Let's do OwnerService.
I don't want static. My mistake.
Then I can also do private,
like so.
Implement that
and now I'm going to initialise
these inside the Constructor and say
equals new. What did I call that?
OwnerServiceMap.
You can see here that we're not
happy on this so if I take a look at the
OwnerServiceMap, this implementation
actually implements CrudService. I'm
going to refactor this to implement the
OwnerService, like so. Let's go ahead and
I'm going to do an alt there and say
Implement Methods. You can see that
this picks up that last name
implementation. We'll have to
implement that later. This is a Map
method where we need to go through and
implement that. We get rid of this
import.
Come back over here. We can see that this
is now happy.
Get rid of the generics now because the
interface actually implements those
on the OwnerService. We are
implementing that on a CrudService so
we no longer need to do that. That
service is still unhappy, so let's go
ahead and implement him.
You can see this is unhappy. I think I probably
have the same problem here. VetService.
VetServiceMap, that should implement
the VetService. That was a mistake in
my previous setting this up. You
can see it's going to be a little bit
smoother now so our VetSeSrviceMap
implements the actual VetService interface
rather than trying to inherit from the
CrudService. It's a mistake that
I made. We will make you
implement PetService because I think
we're going to see that in the future as
well.
As you can see how as I'm working along
here, I'll go ahead and Refactor as I
go. I made it a little bit change in our
data model. But now my DataLoader is
more happy. Just to show you to
reiterate what I'm doing is I'm
implementing these two services and now
I've got the services created in the
constructor. I'm going to refactor this
in a future video to leverage Spring to
provide this configuration for us. But
right now, we're going to treat the DataLoader
like this and refactor in the
future. So let's create an Owner.
What I'm going to do is I'm going to
pause the video here. I don't think you
need to watch me create POJOs.
I'm going to pause it and then come back to
it. I know. Give it a second. I swear I'm not
even moving.  It's just doing it on its own.
Thanks for waiting just jumped ahead a
little bit here and let's do a quick
review here of what I did starting on
line number 30. I created a new Owner
object, so I have owner1. I set the
properties there. Now what's important is
I'm manually managing the id value of 1L
so I manually setting that. You can
see that I have Michael Weston, Fiona
Glenanne,
as my two owners. I'm using a
different ID property for the Owner.
You can see that I'm calling the OwnerService
save method. Down on
line 44, we can see that that's where I
start loading the two Vets, so I have Sam
Axe. Actually, I want to make this.
So Jesse Porter. If you follow along
my videos, you know that I like Burn
Notice. The audio quality or might be
a little bit different. I'm using
different mic right now because I'm
actually recording this from lovely
Phoenix Arizona. I'm out here for work
but I want to knock out this video for you
guys.
I actually brought that up
because I was watching a little Burn
Notice on the plane out here. What
this is going to do for us. We'll get two
Owners and two Vets created. I am going to
go ahead and run this. I put some
system out in here so we can see that
logged out to the console. Let's go
ahead and start this up. I'm going to
expand this out a little bit. There goes
our little Vizsla.
We can see that we're we're
building it up. You can see chatter
in the log where we are initializing the
data container, which are not using yet.
You can see the Hibernate stuff. But
down here at the bottom, if I ever get
rid of my spinning beach ball here, you
can see I have loaded Owners and loaded
Vets and that is from our startup
application. So now we know I could throw
a test in there to see if the Map
properties are loaded. But I think that'
fairly apparent that everything worked
properly. we are going to
refactor this coming up to be more
Springy because right here with the
tools of Spring I don't like that. But we
are going to show you that in an
upcoming video of how to switch that
over to use dependency injection and
allow Spring to manage these components.
Because ultimately, this Bootstrap class
what we wanted to allow it to do is
manage itself and in theory where we're
going with all this is I'm going to
allow Spring to manage whether we're
using a Map service, a hash map, or an
underlying data store and will allow the
Spring Configuration to do all that. But
we're going to do that we need to make
sure that we don't have a leakage.
One thing that will have to refactor is
our ID management will have to allow our
Map service to actually figure out the
IDs. That will also be a future
refactoring. But ultimately, what we're
trying to do here is set up a project so
you can see how we can utilise multiple
Spring Profiles to manage multiple
persistence strategies. That completes
our tasks. I am going to go ahead and
commit this into GitHub so you guys
going to have a source code.
That is #14. Let's just say
Closes #14. I will Commit and
Push that up to GitHub.